=pod

=head2 NAME

 icehelp - a very simple HTML browser

=head2 SYNOPSIS

B<icehelp> [I<OPTIONS>] I<FILENAME>

=head2 DESCRIPTION

B<icehelp> is a very simple HTML browser, which is used by L<icewm(1)>
to display the L<IceWM Manual|https://ice-wm.org/manual> and the manpages.

The document can be navigated by cursor keys, navigation keys and
a scrollbar. To find text, hit C<Ctrl+F> for a search window.
Hit the C<F3> function key to repeat a search.

The top right corner shows a button, which opens a menu. This menu
can also be opened by a right mouse button click.

=head2 ARGUMENTS

=over

=item I<FILENAME>

Specifies the file to browse.  It can also be the URL of a website.

=back

=head2 OPTIONS

=head2 SPECIFIC OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-B>

Display the IceWM icewmbg manpage.

=item B<-b>, B<--bugs>

Display the IceWM bug reports (primitively).

=item B<-f>, B<--faq>

Display the IceWM FAQ and Howto.

=item B<-g>

Display the IceWM Github website.

=item B<-i>, B<--icewm>

Display the IceWM icewm manpage.

=item B<-m>, B<--manual>

Display the IceWM Manual (default).

=item B<-s>

Display the IceWM icesound manpage.

=item B<-t>, B<--theme>

Display the IceWM themes Howto.

=item B<-w>, B<--website>

Display the IceWM website.

=back

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-d>, B<--display>=I<DISPLAY>

Use I<DISPLAY> to connect to the X server.
If this option is missing then I<DISPLAY>
is read from the environment variable C<DISPLAY>.

=item B<--sync>

Use a slower synchronous mode communication with I<X11> server.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print a brief usage statement to F<stdout> and exit.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print the program version to F<stdout> and exit.

=item B<-C>, B<--copying>

Print copying permissions to F<stdout> for the program and exit.

=back

=head2 BUGS

Please report bugs at L<https://github.com/bbidulock/icewm/issues>.

=head2 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

See B<--copying> for full copyright notice and copying permissions.

=head2 LICENSE

B<IceWM> is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License.
See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution or use the B<--copying> flag
to display copying permissions.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
