=pod

=head2 NAME

 icesh - control window properties and the IceWM window manager

=head2 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item B<icesh> I<OPTIONS|ACTIONS>+

=back

=head2 DESCRIPTION

B<icesh> provides two types of commands:

=over

=item 1. Commands to directly interact with icewm:

These are listed in the section "MANAGER ACTIONS" below.
They are easy to use, because they don't require to select one
or more windows. For example, C<icesh restart> will restart
icewm and C<icesh clients> lists the applications which
are managed by icewm.

=item 2. Commands which operate on a selection of windows:

See the section C<WINDOW ACTIONS> below. For example, C<icesh close>
is a request to close a window, but which window? Now icesh
will turn the mouse pointer into a crosshair. Click on a window
and a close request will be sent to that application.

The power of icesh lies in its ability to programmatically
select one or more windows and operate on that selection.
This can be used in scripts and in L<icewm-keys(5)>
to define your own window management hotkeys.  For example, to
immediately close all xterm windows do C<icesh -c xterm close>.

There are a dozen C<SELECT OPTIONS> to select windows.  They start
with a '-' or a '+'.  The '-' starts a new selection, while the '+'
adds more windows to an existing selection.

This selection of windows can be reduced by C<FILTER OPTIONS>.
These remove unwanted windows from the current selection.
Multiple filter options can be given. For example,
C<icesh -c xterm -W this close> will close only those xterms
which are shown on the current workspace. The xterms on other
workspaces are filtered out by the C<-W this> filter option.

=back

There is no limit to the number of commands, selections, filters
and actions which you can give to a single icesh command.
They are processed and evaluated one by one from left to right.
This makes icesh a small declarative programming language.
Have a look at some examples near the end of this document.

=head2 OPTIONS

B<icesh> recognizes the following options:

=head2 SELECT OPTIONS

Select options specify the window or windows to which subsequent
actions apply. If none is given, but an action does require a window,
then a selection crosshair is shown to select the desired window
interactively. The manager actions do not require window options.

The following options I<select> one or more client windows.
If needed, they can be repeated for successive actions.

=over

=item B<-a>, B<-all>

Selects all client windows of the window manager.

=item B<-f>, B<-focus>, B<+f>, B<+focus>

Selects the application window which is currently focused.
The option with minus sign replaces the existing selection with
the focused window. With a plus sign the focused window is added to
an existing selection.

=item B<+g>, B<+group>

Extend the current selection with client windows which
belong to the same application window group.

=item B<-r>, B<-root>, B<+r>, B<+root>

Selects the root window.
The option with minus sign replaces the existing selection with
the root window. With a plus sign the root window is added to
an existing selection.

=item B<-s>, B<-shown>

Selects all client windows which are on the current workspace.

=item B<-t>, B<-top>

Selects all toplevel windows from the display unconditionally.
This includes windows which have never been mapped and windows
with the override redirect bit set to evade management.

=item B<-w>, B<-window>, B<+w>, B<+window> I<WINDOW_ID>

Specifies the identifier of the window, I<WINDOW_ID>, for which the
action applies.  Special identifiers are B<root> for the root window
and B<focus> for the currently focused window.
The option with minus sign replaces the existing selection.
With a plus sign the window is added to an existing selection.

=item B<-x>, B<-xembed>

Selects all windows which are embedded using the I<XEMBED> protocol.

=item B<+c>, B<+class> I<CLASS>

Extend the current selection with client windows that have a
I<WM_CLASS> property equal to I<CLASS>. This is the resource
instance and class name.  If I<CLASS> contains a period, only
windows with exactly the same I<WM_CLASS> property are matched.
If there is no period, windows of the same class and windows
of the same instance are selected.

=item B<+C>, B<+Class>

Extend the current selection with client windows that
have a I<WM_CLASS> property I<similar> to the already
selected set of windows.

=item B<-D>, B<-Dockapps>

Selects all Dockapp applications which are managed by icewm.

=item B<+P>, B<+Pid>

Extend the current selection with client windows that have
the same process identifier as one of the selected windows.

=item B<-T>

Selects the IceWM taskbar.

=back

=head2 FILTER OPTIONS

The following options I<filter> the currently selected set of windows.
If no previous I<select> option was given then a B<-all> option is
implicitly assumed to filter all client windows.

=over

=item B<-c>, B<-class> I<CLASS>

Filters the set of windows on their I<WM_CLASS> property.  This is
the resource instance and class name. If I<CLASS> contains a period,
only windows with exactly the same I<WM_CLASS> property are matched.
If there is no period, windows of the same class and windows of the
same instance (aka. I<-name>) are selected.

=item B<-l>, B<-last>

Filter clients and keep only the most recent client.

=item B<-m>, B<-machine> I<HOST>

Filters clients by host name. Clients with a WM_CLIENT_MACHINE property
equal to I<HOST> are selected.

=item B<-n>, B<-name> I<NAME>

Filters clients by _NET_WM_NAME or WM_NAME.
I<NAME> matches any part of the property value.
To match at the beginning use a C<^> prefix.
To match at the end use a C<$> suffix.

=item B<-p>, B<-pid> I<PID>

Filters clients by process ID. Clients with a _NET_WM_PID property equal
to I<PID> are selected.

=item B<-u>, B<-unmapped>

Filter clients and keep those which are currently not viewable.
These are hidden, minimized, rolled-up, or on another workspace.

=item B<-v>, B<-viewable>

Filter clients and keep only those which are currently viewable.
These clients are mapped on the current workspace.

=item B<-G>, B<-Gravity> I<GRAVITY>

Filters clients by the window gravity field of the WM_NORMAL_HINTS
property.  Clients with a gravity equal to I<GRAVITY> are selected.
If I<GRAVITY> starts with an exclamation mark then the filtering is
inverted.

=item B<-L>, B<-Layer> I<LAYER>

Filters clients by I<GNOME window layer>, which can either be a layer
name or a layer number. See EXPRESSIONS below. If I<LAYER> starts with
an exclamation mark then the filtering is inverted.

=item B<-N>, B<-Netstate> I<STATE>

Filters clients by I<EWMH window state>. Clients which have at
least an EWMH window state of I<STATE> are selected.  This state
refers to details like B<MINIZED> or B<MAXIMIZED>. See EXPRESSIONS
below. If I<STATE> starts with an exclamation mark then the filtering
is inverted.  A question mark C<?> filters clients with any bit set
in I<STATE>.

=item B<-P>, B<-Property> I<PROP[=value]>

Filters clients by property. Clients which have a property I<PROP>
are selected. If the optional I<value> is given, the match succeeds
only if I<PROP> is a string, window, cardinal, or atom, with a value
equal to I<value>.  The filtering is inverted if I<PROP> starts with
an exclamation mark.

=item B<-R>, B<-Role> I<ROLE>

Filters clients by WM_WINDOW_ROLE. Clients which have a WM_WINDOW_ROLE
property value equal to I<ROLE> are selected.  The filtering is inverted
if I<ROLE> starts with an exclamation mark.

=item B<-W>, B<-Workspace> I<WORKSPACE>

Filter clients by workspace. Workspace I<WORKSPACE> is either a
workspace name, or a workspace number counting from zero, or the word
C<this> for the current workspace, or the word C<All> for all workspaces.
If I<WORKSPACE> starts with an exclamation mark then the filtering is
inverted.

=item B<-X>, B<-Xinerama> I<MONITOR>

Limit clients by I<RandR>/I<Xinerama> monitor. Only operate on
clients which are displayed on I<MONITOR>, where I<MONITOR> can
be C<All> for all monitors, C<this> for the monitor where the
active window is displayed, or a monitor number starting from zero.
See the output of C<randr> or C<xinerama> below.

=back

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

The following options are identical for every IceWM command.

=over

=item B<-d>, B<-display> I<DISPLAY>

Specifies the X11 DISPLAY.  If unspecified, defaults to B<$DISPLAY>.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print a brief usage statement to F<stdout> and exit.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print the program version to F<stdout> and exit.

=item B<-C>, B<--copying>

Print copying permissions to F<stdout> for the program and exit.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Don't complain if no matching windows could be found.

=back

=head2 ACTIONS

B<icesh> expects one or more action arguments.  There are two kinds of
actions: I<window actions> and I<manager actions>. The first operates on
the selected windows. The second directly interacts with the B<icewm>
window manager.

=head2 WINDOW ACTIONS

The following actions affect the selected window or windows.

=over

=item B<activate>

Activate the window, aka. I<to focus>.

=item B<close>

Send a close request to the client that created the window.

=item B<kill>

Force an immediate close down of the client that created the window.

=item B<id>

Print window identifiers for the selected windows.

=item B<pid>

Print process identifiers for the selected windows.

=item B<list>

Show window details, like geometry and names.

=item B<lower>

Lower the window.

=item B<raise>

Raise the window.

=item B<above>

Stack the window above others.

=item B<below>

Stack the window below others.

=item B<rollup>

Rollup the specified window.

=item B<fullscreen>

Set the window to fullscreen.

=item B<maximize>

Maximize the window.

=item B<horizontal>

Maximize the window only horizontally.

=item B<vertical>

Maximize the window only vertically.

=item B<minimize>

Minimize the window.

=item B<restore>

Restore the window to normal.

=item B<hide>

Hide the window.

=item B<unhide>

Reveal the window.

=item B<skip>

Don't show the window on the taskbar.

=item B<unskip>

Do show the window on the taskbar.

=item B<sticky>

Show the window on all workspaces.

=item B<unsticky>

Show the window on just one workspace.

=item B<urgent>

Set the urgent flag to flash the task button.

=item B<resize> I<WIDTH> I<HEIGHT>

Resize window to I<WIDTH> by I<HEIGHT> window units.  For text based
applications like terminals, a window unit is the size of a single
character cell.

=item B<sizeto> I<WIDTH> I<HEIGHT>

Resize window to I<WIDTH> by I<HEIGHT> pixels. If I<WIDTH> or I<HEIGHT>
ends with a percent sign C<%>, then they refer to a percentage of the
desktop work area. For instance, C<sizeto 50% 100%> resizes to half
the desktop width and whatever height is available above or below the
taskbar.

=item B<sizeby> I<WIDTH> I<HEIGHT>

Resize window by I<WIDTH> by I<HEIGHT> pixels. If I<WIDTH> or I<HEIGHT>
ends with a percent sign C<%>, then they refer to a percentage of the
current window size. For instance, C<sizeby 50% 200> increases the width
by 50% and increases the height by 200 pixels.

=item B<move> I<X> I<Y>

Move the selected window or windows to the screen position I<X> I<Y>.
To specify I<X> or I<Y> values relative to the right side or bottom side
precede the value with an extra minus sign, like in C<move -+10 --20>.

=item B<moveby> I<X> I<Y>

Displace window by I<X> I<Y> pixels.

=item B<center>

Position the window in the center of the desktop work area.

=item B<left>

Position the window against the left side of the desktop work area.

=item B<right>

Position the window against the right side of the desktop work area.

=item B<top>

Position the window against the top side of the desktop work area.

=item B<bottom>

Position the window against the bottom side of the desktop work area.

=item B<setIconTitle> I<TITLE>

Set the icon title to I<TITLE>.

=item B<getIconTitle>

Print the icon title.

=item B<setWindowTitle> I<TITLE>

Set the window title to I<TITLE>.

=item B<getWindowTitle>

Print the window title.

=item B<setGeometry> I<GEOMETRY>

Set the window geometry to I<GEOMETRY>.  This geometry should be
specified in a format that can be parsed by L<XParseGeometry(3)>.
Negative offsets are with respect to the bottom or right side of
the screen.  Use C<+-> for a truly negative position.

=item B<getGeometry>

Print the window geometry.

=item B<netState> I<[STATE]>

If I<STATE> is omitted then it shows the I<EWMH window state>.
If I<STATE> starts with a C<+> then flags in I<STATE> are appended to
the existing I<EWMH window state>.  If I<STATE> starts with a C<->
then flags in I<STATE> are removed from the existing I<EWMH window
state>.  If I<STATE> starts with a C<^> then flags in I<STATE> are
toggled with respect to the existing I<EWMH window state>.
If I<STATE> starts with a C<=> then the I<EWMH window state>
is set to I<STATE>. See EXPRESSIONS below. A list of I<EWMH flags>
can be found in the output of C<icesh symbols>.

=item B<setLayer> I<LAYER>

Move the specified window to another I<window layer>.
See EXPRESSIONS below for a list of I<LAYER> symbols.

=item B<getLayer>

Print the I<window layer> for the specified window.

=item B<setWorkspace> I<WORKSPACE>

Move the specified window to another workspace.  Select the root
window to change the current workspace. If I<WORKSPACE> is C<All>
then the specified window becomes visible on all workspaces.
Specify C<this> for the current workspace, C<next> for the subsequent
workspace or C<prev> for the preceding workspace.

=item B<getWorkspace>

Print the workspace for the specified window.

=item B<opacity> [I<OPACITY>]

Print the window opacity if I<OPACITY> is not given,
otherwise set the window opacity to I<OPACITY>.

=item B<setTrayOption> I<TRAYOPTION>

Set the I<IceWM tray option> for the specified window to I<TRAYOPTION>.
See I<IceWM tray options>, below, for I<TRAYOPTION> symbols.

=item B<getTrayOption>

Print the I<IceWM tray option> for the specified window.

=item B<setNormalGravity> I<GRAVITY>

Set the window gravity field in the WM_NORMAL_HINTS property for the
specified window to I<GRAVITY>.  See below for I<GRAVITY> symbols.

=item B<getNormalGravity>

Print the window gravity from the WM_NORMAL_HINTS property for the
specified window.

=item B<setWindowGravity> I<GRAVITY>

Set the window gravity for the specified window to I<GRAVITY>.
See below for I<GRAVITY> symbols.

=item B<getWindowGravity>

Print the window gravity for the specified window.

=item B<setBitGravity> I<GRAVITY>

Set the bit gravity> for the specified window to I<GRAVITY>.
See below for I<GRAVITY> symbols.

=item B<getBitGravity>

Print the bit gravity for the specified window.

=item B<motif> [B<funcs> I<FUNCTIONS> | B<decor> I<DECORATIONS> | B<remove>]

Query, set or modify the C<_MOTIF_WM_HINTS> property for the specified
window.  Without arguments B<motif> will show the current value, but
only if the window has such a property. The property can be removed or
reset with the B<remove> argument. With B<funcs> and B<decor> individual
fields of this property can be enabled or disabled. If I<FUNCTIONS> or
I<DECORATIONS> starts with a minus or plus sign then the existing value
is modified, otherwise it is set to the new value. Note that if C<All>
is set, other set fields are disabled and cleared fields are enabled.

=item B<borderless>

Hide the frame borders and title.

=item B<bordered>

Show the frame borders and title.

=item B<denormal>

Remove the WM_NORMAL_HINTS property, if it exists.  This lifts
font-size restrictions on resizing, especially for terminals.

=item B<prop> I<PROPERTY>

Print the value of property I<PROPERTY>, if it is present.

=item B<properties>

Print all properties and their values.

=item B<frame>

Print the identifier of the window frame.

=item B<extents>

Print the window identifier and the frame border sizes: left, right,
top and bottom.

=item B<focusmodel>

Print the ICCCM focus model as advertised by the client window.
This is either Locally, Passive, Globally or NoInput.

=item B<override> [I<0|1>]

Print the override redirect status for the window, or if either 0 or 1
is given, then disable or enable the override redirect status.

=item B<tabto> I<label>

Move the windows as tabs to a frame which has C<frame> label I<label>.
Such a frame is created if needed.

=item B<untab>

Move each window to its own frame, if it is currently tabbed.

=item B<click> I<window-x> I<window-y> I<button>

Send a button press and release event at position (I<window-x>,
I<window-y>). A negative position is relative to the bottom right
corner. The mouse pointer is warped to the position before sending
the events. The button number should be between 1 and 5 inclusive.

=item B<monitors> I<top> I<bottom> I<left> I<right>

This sets the monitors to use for fullscreen.
Top, bottom, left, and right are indices of the I<icesh xinerama> command.

=item B<spy>

Observe the selected windows and report any changes. This includes
focus, visibility, position, size and all window properties.
To monitor all of the protocol request messages that client applications
may send to icewm, also spy on the root window.

=item B<stacking>

Sort the list of windows from topmost to bottom-most.

=item B<reverse>

Reverse the order of the list of windows.

=back

=head2 MANAGER ACTIONS

The following actions control the IceWM window manager and therefore
do not require a window I<select> or I<filter> option:

=over

=item B<listWorkspaces>

List the names of all workspaces.

=item B<current>

Show the number and name of the current workspace.

=item B<goto> I<WORKSPACE>

Change the current workspace to I<WORKSPACE>. Specify C<next> for the
subsequent workspace or C<prev> for the preceding workspace.

=item B<workspaces> [I<COUNT>]

Print the number of workspaces if I<COUNT> is not given,
otherwise set the number of workspaces to I<COUNT>.

=item B<setWorkspaceName> I<INDEX> I<NAME>

Change the name of the workspace I<INDEX> to I<NAME>, where I<INDEX> is
a workspace number starting from zero.

=item B<setWorkspaceNames> I<NAME> [I<NAME>]*

Change the workspace names to the list of I<NAME>s.

=item B<addWorkspace> I<NAME>

Create a new workspace with name I<NAME>.

=item B<desktop> [I<SHOWING>]

If I<SHOWING> is C<1> then set C<showing the desktop> mode.
If I<SHOWING> is C<0> then turn off C<showing the desktop>.
Print the current mode if I<SHOWING> is not given.

=item B<workarea>

Print the dimensions of the work area for the current workspace.
This is the desktop, but minus space occupied by dock and panel windows.

=item B<randr>

Summarize the I<RandR> configuration.

=item B<xinerama>

Summarize the I<Xinerama> configuration.

=item B<check>

Print information about the current window manager, like name,
version, class, locale, command, host name and pid.

=item B<clients>

List all managed client windows, their titles and geometries.

=item B<shown>

List all mapped client windows for the current desktop,
their titles and geometries.

=item B<windows>

List all toplevel windows, their titles and geometries.

=item B<systray>

List applications which are managed by the IceWM system tray.

=item B<xembed>

List application windows which are embedded using the I<XEMBED> protocol.
This is another way to discover system tray applications.

=item B<logout>

Let icewm execute the C<LogoutCommand>.

=item B<reboot>

Let icewm execute the C<RebootCommand>.

=item B<shutdown>

Let icewm execute the C<ShutdownCommand>.

=item B<cancel>

Let icewm cancel the logout/reboot/shutdown.

=item B<about>

Let icewm show the about window.

=item B<windowlist>

Let icewm show the window list window.

=item B<restart>

Let icewm restart itself.

=item B<suspend>

Let icewm execute the C<SuspendCommand>.

=item B<winoptions>

Let icewm reload the C<winoptions>.

=item B<keys>

Let icewm reload the C<keys> file.

=item B<guievents>

Monitor the B<ICEWM_GUI_EVENT> property and report all changes.

=item B<delay> [I<time>]

Stop execution for I<time> or 0.1 seconds.

=item B<runonce> I<program> [I<arguments...>]

This action is meant to be used together with the B<-class> option.
Only if no window is matched by I<WM_CLASS> then
I<program> [I<arguments...>] is executed.

=item B<sync>

Synchronize with the IceWM window manager. That is, wait for icewm to
process all previous actions.

=item B<symbols>

List all named symbols.

=back

=head2 CONDITIONALS

Icesh supports C<if-then-else> expressions. The full syntax is:

    if selection
    then
        actions
    elif selection
    then
        actions
    else
        actions
    end

Where C<selection> is a sequence of selection and filtering options,
which evaluates to B<true> when it is non-empty. That is, if one or more
windows fulfilled the condition. If it is empty, then its C<actions>
clause is ignored and the subsequent C<elif> or C<else> clause is tried
or taken. Each clause is optional.

Whenever a selection condition evaluates to B<false>, the window selection
that existed before the C<if> clause is immediately restored.  This also
happens after an C<end> clause.

=head2 EXPRESSIONS

Some of the window actions require one or two I<EXPRESSION> arguments.

=over

=item B<EXPRESSION> ::= I<SYMBOL> | I<EXPRESSION> { C<+> | C<|> }
I<SYMBOL>

=back

Each I<SYMBOL> may be from one of the following applicable domains:

=over

=item I<Window layer>

Named symbols of the domain I<Window layer> (numeric range: 0-15):

    Desktop                (0)
    Below                  (2)
    Normal                 (4)
    OnTop                  (6)
    Dock                   (8)
    AboveDock             (10)
    Menu                  (12)

These symbols are used with the I<LAYER> argument to the C<setLayer>
action.

=item I<IceWM tray option>

Named symbols of the domain I<IceWM tray option> (numeric range: 0-2):

    Ignore                 (0)
    Minimized              (1)
    Exclusive              (2)

These symbols are used with the I<TRAYOPTION> argument to the
C<setTrayOption> action.

=item I<Gravity symbols>

Named symbols for window and bit gravity (numeric range: 0-10):

    ForgetGravity         (0)
    NorthWestGravity      (1)
    NorthGravity          (2)
    NorthEastGravity      (3)
    WestGravity           (4)
    CenterGravity         (5)
    EastGravity           (6)
    SouthWestGravity      (7)
    SouthGravity          (8)
    SouthEastGravity      (9)
    StaticGravity         (10)

=item I<Motif functions>

    All                  (1)
    Resize               (2)
    Move                 (4)
    Minimize             (8)
    Maximize             (16)
    Close                (32)

=item I<Motif decorations>

    All                  (1)
    Border               (2)
    Resize               (4)
    Title                (8)
    Menu                 (16)
    Minimize             (32)
    Maximize             (64)

=item I<EWMH window state symbols>

Named symbols of the domain I<EWMH state> (numeric range:
0-8191):

    ABOVE                 (1)
    BELOW                 (2)
    DEMANDS_ATTENTION     (4)
    FOCUSED               (8)
    FULLSCREEN            (16)
    HIDDEN                (32)
    MAXIMIZED_HORZ        (64)
    MAXIMIZED_VERT        (128)
    MODAL                 (256)
    SHADED                (512)
    SKIP_PAGER            (1024)
    SKIP_TASKBAR          (2048)
    STICKY                (4096)

=back

=head2 EXAMPLES

List all workspace names:

    icesh listWorkspaces

Example output:

    workspace #0: `main'
    workspace #1: `web'
    workspace #2: `doc'
    workspace #3: `dev'

Close terminal work and activate terminal fun.

    icesh -c work.XTerm close -a -c fun.XTerm activate

Print opacity for all xterms.

    icesh -c XTerm opacity

Change opacity for all xterms.

    icesh -c XTerm opacity 84

Move all windows on workspace "Top" to the current workspace.

    icesh -W "Top" setWorkspace "this"

Restore all hidden clients, minimize all clients on the current
workspace and activate Firefox.

    icesh -N HIDDEN restore -a -W "this" minimize -a -c Firefox activate

Resize the focused window to occupy the right half of the desktop area.

    icesh -f sizeto 49% 100% sync top sync right sync raise

Toggle the frame border of the focused window.

    if icesh -f motif | grep -q 'decor:$'; then \
        icesh -f motif decor All; else icesh -f motif decor ""; fi

Here is a different solution using conditionals.

    icesh -f if -P _NET_FRAME_EXTENTS=0 then bordered else borderless

Here is a conditional to either toggle the visibility of a roxterm,
which has a WM_ROLE value of C<special>, or start it with B<runonce>.

    icesh sync if -c roxterm.Roxterm -R special then \
        if -v then hide \
        elif -u then setWorkspace this sync activate end \
        else runonce roxterm --role=special

Collect all urxvt terminals from the fourth workspace in a single frame
on the current workspace.

    icesh -W 3 -c urxvt tabto myfunnyname

=head2 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item B<DISPLAY>

The default display.

=back

=head2 EXIT STATUS

=over

=item B<0>

The last action completed successfully.

=item B<1>

The last action completed unsuccessfully, or no window met the condition.

=item B<2>

A conditional has invalid syntax.

=item B<3>

The display could not be opened.

=item B<4>

The X server reports an error while processing a request.

=back

=head2 COMPLIANCE

B<icesh> is largely compliant with the EWMH and ICCCM specifications.
Some commands, like manager actions, are specific to IceWM.

=head2 SEE ALSO

L<icewm(1)>, L<wmctrl(1)>, L<xdotool(1)>, L<xprop(1)>,
L<xwininfo(1)>, L<XParseGeometry(3)>.

=head2 BUGS

Please report bugs at L<https://github.com/bbidulock/icewm/issues>.

=head2 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

See B<--copying> for full copyright notice and copying permissions.

=head2 LICENSE

B<IceWM> is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License.
See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution or use the B<--copying> flag
to display copying permissions.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
