=pod

=head1 NAME

 icewm-theme - icewm theme configuration file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item F<$ICEWM_PRIVCFG/theme>

=item F<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/icewm/theme>

=item F<$HOME/.icewm/theme>

=item F</etc/icewm/theme>

=item F</usr/share/icewm/theme>

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<theme> file contains the name of the default theme.  On startup
B<icewm> reads this file to obtain the theme name, unless B<icewm> was
started with the B<--theme> option.  Whenever a different theme is
selected from the B<icewm> Menu then the theme file is overwritten with
the name of the selected theme.

=head1 FORMAT

This theme file contains the keyword C<Theme>, followed by an equals
sign, followed by a double-quoted string with the theme name.  The theme
name is the name of the theme directory, followed by a slash, followed
by the theme file.

Usually the theme file is just F<default.theme>, but a theme may have
alternatives.  Alternatives are small tweaks of a theme.  These are
specified in their own F<.theme> file, which replaces F<default.theme>.

If no theme file exists then B<icewm> will use the default setting of
C<Theme="default/default.theme">.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Following is my current F<theme> file.  You can see from the comments
that L<icewm(1)> keeps a history of the previous ten theme settings.

    Theme="Unexicon-towers/default.theme"
    #Theme="Unexicon-pedestals/default.theme"
    ##Theme="Unexicon-penguins/default.theme"
    ###Theme="Unexicon/default.theme"
    ####Theme="Squared-for-debian/default.theme"
    #####Theme="Squared-grey/default.theme"
    ######Theme="Squared-green/default.theme"
    #######Theme="Penguins/default.theme"
    ########Theme="Squared-blue/default.theme"
    #########Theme="default/default.theme"
    ##########Theme="yellowmotif/default.theme"

=head1 FILES

Locations for the toolbar options file are as follows:

=over

=item F<$ICEWM_PRIVCFG/theme>

=item F<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/icewm/theme>

=item F<$HOME/.icewm/theme>

=item F</etc/icewm/theme>

=item F</usr/share/icewm/theme>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<icewm(1)>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

B<IceWM> is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License.
See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
