=pod

=head1 NAME

 icewm-preferences - icewm preferences configuration file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item F<$ICEWM_PRIVCFG/preferences>

=item F<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/icewm/preferences>

=item F<$HOME/.icewm/preferences>

=item F</etc/icewm/preferences>

=item F</usr/share/icewm/preferences>

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Contains general settings like paths, colors and fonts, but also options
to control the B<icewm> focus behaviour and the applets which are
started in the task bar.  The B<icewm> installation will provide a
default F<preferences> file, which can be copied to the B<icewm> user
configuration directory and modified.

=head1 FORMAT

=head2 FOCUS AND BEHAVIOR

The following preferences affect focus and general behavior of
L<icewm(1)>:

=over

=item B<ClickToFocus>=1

Focus windows by clicking in them.

=item B<FocusOnAppRaise>=0

Focus windows when applications request that they be raised.

=item B<RequestFocusOnAppRaise>=1

Request focus (flashing in taskbar) when application requests raise.

=item B<RaiseOnFocus>=1

Raise windows when focused.

=item B<FocusOnClickClient>=1

Focus window when client area clicked.

=item B<RaiseOnClickClient>=1

Raise window when client area clicked.

=item B<RaiseOnClickTitleBar>=1

Raise window when title bar is clicked.

=item B<RaiseOnClickButton>=1

Raise window when frame button is clicked.

=item B<RaiseOnClickFrame>=1

Raise window when frame border is clicked.

=item B<LowerOnClickWhenRaised>=0

Lower the active window when clicked again.

=item B<PassFirstClickToClient>=1

Pass focusing click on client area to client.

=item B<FocusChangesWorkspace>=0

Change to the workspace of newly focused windows.

=item B<FocusOnMap>=1

Focus normal window when initially mapped.

=item B<FocusOnMapTransient>=0

Focus dialog window when initially mapped.

=item B<FocusOnMapTransientActive>=1

Focus dialog window when initially mapped only if parent frame focused.

=item B<MapInactiveOnTop>=1

Put new windows on top even if not focusing them.

=item B<PointerColormap>=1

Colormap focus follows pointer.

=item B<DontRotateMenuPointer>=1

Don't rotate the cursor for popup menus.

=item B<LimitSize>=1

Limit size of windows to screen.

=item B<LimitPosition>=1

Limit position of windows to screen.

=item B<LimitByDockLayer>=0

Let the Dock layer limit the workspace (incompatible with GNOME Panel).

=item B<ConsiderHBorder>=0

Consider border frames when maximizing horizontally.

=item B<ConsiderVBorder>=0

Consider border frames when maximizing vertically.

=item B<ConsiderSizeHintsMaximized>=1

Consider XSizeHints if frame is maximized.

=item B<CenterMaximizedWindows>=0

Center maximized windows which can't fit the screen (like terminals).

=item B<HideBordersMaximized>=0

Hide window borders if window is maximized.

=item B<SizeMaximized>=0

Maximized windows can be resized.

=item B<ShowMoveSizeStatus>=1

Show position status window during move/resize.

=item B<ShowWorkspaceStatus>=1

Show name of current workspace while switching.

=item B<MinimizeToDesktop>=0

Display mini-icons on desktop for minimized windows.

=item B<MiniIconsPlaceHorizontal>=0

Place the mini-icons horizontal instead of vertical.

=item B<MiniIconsRightToLeft>=0

Place new mini-icons from right to left.

=item B<MiniIconsBottomToTop>=0

Place new mini-icons from bottom to top.

=item B<StrongPointerFocus>=0

Always maintain focus under mouse window (makes some keyboard support
non-functional or unreliable.

=item B<OpaqueMove>=1

Opaque window move.

=item B<OpaqueResize>=1

Opaque window resize.

=item B<ManualPlacement>=0

Windows initially placed manually by user.

=item B<SmartPlacement>=1

Smart window placement (minimal overlap).

=item B<HideTitleBarWhenMaximized>=0

Hide title bar when maximized.

=item B<CenterLarge>=0

Center large windows.

=item B<CenterTransientsOnOwner>=1

Center dialogs on owner window.

=item B<MenuMouseTracking>=0

Menus track mouse even with no mouse buttons held.

=item B<AutoRaise>=0

Auto raise windows after delay.

=item B<DelayPointerFocus>=1

Delay pointer focusing when mouse moves.

=item B<Win95Keys>=1

Support win95 keyboard keys (Penguin/Meta/Win_L,R shows menu).

=item B<ModSuperIsCtrlAlt>=1

Treat Super/Win modifier as Ctrl+Alt.

=item B<UseMouseWheel>=0

Support mouse wheel.

=item B<ShowPopupsAbovePointer>=0

Show popup menus above mouse pointer.

=item B<ReplayMenuCancelClick>=0

Send the clicks outside menus to target window.

=item B<ClientWindowMouseActions>=1

Allow mouse actions on client windows (buggy with some programs).

=item B<GrabRootWindow>=1

Manage root window (EXPERIMENTAL - normally enabled!).

=item B<SnapMove>=1

Snap to nearest screen edge/window when moving windows.

=item B<SnapDistance>=8  [0-64]

Distance in pixels before windows snap together.

=item B<ArrangeWindowsOnScreenSizeChange>=1

Automatically arrange windows when screen size changes.

=item B<AllowFullscreen>=1

Allow to switch a window to fullscreen.

=item B<FullscreenUseAllMonitors>=0

Span over all available screens if window goes into fullscreen.

=item B<MsgBoxDefaultAction>=0  [0-1]

Preselect to Cancel (0) or the OK (1) button in message boxes.

=item B<NetWorkAreaBehaviour>=0  [0-2]

NET_WORKAREA behaviour: 0 (single/multi-monitor with STRUT information,
like metacity), 1 (always full desktop), 2 (single monitor with STRUT,
multi-monitor without STRUT).

=back

=head3 Quick Switch List

=over

=item B<QuickSwitch>=1

Alt+Tab window switching.

=item B<QuickSwitchToMinimized>=1

Alt+Tab to minimized windows.

=item B<QuickSwitchToHidden>=1

Alt+Tab to hidden windows.

=item B<QuickSwitchToUrgent>=1

Priorize Alt+Tab to urgent windows.

=item B<QuickSwitchToAllWorkspaces>=0

Alt+Tab to windows on other workspaces.

=item B<QuickSwitchGroupWorkspaces>=1

Alt+Tab: group windows on current workspace.

=item B<QuickSwitchAllIcons>=1

Show all reachable icons when quick switching.

=item B<QuickSwitchTextFirst>=0

Show the window title above (all reachable) icons.

=item B<QuickSwitchSmallWindow>=0

Attempt to create a small QuickSwitch window (1/3 instead of 3/5 of

=item B<QuickSwitchMaxWidth>=0

Go through all window titles and choose width of the longest one.

=item B<QuickSwitchVertical>=1

Place the icons and titles vertical instead of horizontal.

=item B<QuickSwitchHugeIcon>=0

Show the huge (48x48) of the window icon for the active window.

=item B<QuickSwitchFillSelection>=0

Fill the rectangle highlighting the current icon.

=back

=head3 Edge Workspace Switching

=over

=item B<EdgeSwitch>=0

Workspace switches by moving mouse to left/right screen edge.

=item B<HorizontalEdgeSwitch>=0

Workspace switches by moving mouse to left/right screen edge.

=item B<VerticalEdgeSwitch>=0

Workspace switches by moving mouse to top/bottom screen edge.

=item B<ContinuousEdgeSwitch>=1

Workspace switches continuously when moving mouse to screen edge.

=item B<EdgeResistance>=32  [0-10000]

Resistance in pixels when trying to move windows off the screen (10000 =
infinite).

=back

=head2 TASK BAR

The following preferences affect the L<icewm(1)> task bar:

=over

=item B<ShowTaskBar>=1

Show task bar.

=item B<TaskBarAtTop>=0

Task bar at top of the screen.

=item B<TaskBarKeepBelow>=0

Keep the task bar below regular windows.

=item B<TaskBarAutoHide>=0

Auto hide task bar after delay.

=item B<TaskBarFullscreenAutoShow>=1

Auto show task bar when fullscreen window active.

=item B<TaskBarShowClock>=1

Show clock on task bar.

=item B<TaskBarShowAPMStatus>=0

Show APM/ACPI/Battery/Power status monitor on task bar.

=item B<TaskBarShowAPMAuto>=1

Enable TaskBarShowAPMStatus if a battery is present.

=item B<TaskBarShowAPMTime>=1

Show APM status on task bar in time-format.

=item B<TaskBarShowAPMGraph>=1

Show APM status in graph mode.

=item B<TaskBarShowMailboxStatus>=1

Show mailbox status on task bar.

=item B<TaskBarMailboxStatusBeepOnNewMail>=0

Beep when new mail arrives.

=item B<TaskBarMailboxStatusCountMessages>=0

Count messages in mailbox.

=item B<TaskBarShowWorkspaces>=1

Show workspace switching buttons on task bar.

=item B<TaskBarShowWindows>=1

Show windows on the taskbar.

=item B<TaskBarShowShowDesktopButton>=1

Show 'show desktop' button on taskbar.

=item B<ShowEllipsis>=1

Show Ellipsis in taskbar items.

=item B<TaskBarShowTray>=1

Show windows in the tray.

=item B<TrayShowAllWindows>=1

Show windows from all workspaces on tray.

=item B<TaskBarShowTransientWindows>=1

Show transient (dialogs, ...) windows on task bar.

=item B<TaskBarShowAllWindows>=0

Show windows from all workspaces on task bar.

=item B<TaskBarShowWindowIcons>=1

Show icons of windows on the task bar.

=item B<TaskBarShowStartMenu>=1

Show 'Start' menu on task bar.

=item B<TaskBarShowWindowListMenu>=1

Show 'window list' menu on task bar.

=item B<TaskBarShowCPUStatus>=1

Show CPU status on task bar (Linux & Solaris).

=item B<CPUStatusShowRamUsage>=1

Show RAM usage in CPU status tool tip.

=item B<CPUStatusShowSwapUsage>=1

Show swap usage in CPU status tool tip.

=item B<CPUStatusShowAcpiTemp>=1

Show ACPI temperature in CPU status tool tip.

=item B<CPUStatusShowAcpiTempInGraph>=0

Show ACPI temperature in CPU status bar.

=item B<CPUStatusShowCpuFreq>=1

Show CPU frequency in CPU status tool tip.

=item B<TaskBarShowMEMStatus>=1

Show memory usage status on task bar (Linux only).

=item B<TaskBarShowNetStatus>=1

Show network status on task bar (Linux only).

=item B<TaskBarShowCollapseButton>=0

Show a button to collapse the taskbar.

=item B<TaskBarDoubleHeight>=0

Use double-height task bar.

=item B<TaskBarWorkspacesLeft>=1

Place workspace pager on left, not right.

=item B<TaskBarWorkspacesTop>=0

Place workspace pager on top row when using dual-height taskbar.

=item B<PagerShowPreview>=1

Show a mini desktop preview on each workspace button.

=item B<PagerShowWindowIcons>=1

Draw window icons inside large enough preview windows on pager (if PagerShowPreview=1).

=item B<PagerShowMinimized>=1

Draw even minimized windows as unfilled rectangles (if PagerShowPreview=1).

=item B<PagerShowBorders>=1

Draw border around workspace buttons (if PagerShowPreview=1).

=item B<PagerShowNumbers>=1

Show number of workspace on workspace button (if PagerShowPreview=1).

=item B<TaskBarLaunchOnSingleClick>=1

Execute taskbar applet commands (like MailCommand,     ClockCommand,   ...) on single click.

=item B<EnableAddressBar>=1

Enable address bar functionality in taskbar.

=item B<ShowAddressBar>=1

Show address bar in task bar.

=item B<MailBoxPath>=""

Mailbox path (use \$MAIL instead).

Path to a mbox file. Remote mail boxes are accessed by specifying an URL
using the Common Internet Scheme Syntax (RFC 1738):

    `scheme://[user[:password]@]server[:port][/path]`.

Supported schemes are C<pop3>, C<imap> and C<file>.  When the scheme is
omitted F<file://> is prepended silently. IMAP subfolders can be
accessed by using the  path component.  Reserved characters like
I<slash> (C</>), I<at> (C<@>) and I<colon> (C<:>) can be specified using
escape sequences with a hexadecimal encoding like C<%2f> for the slash
or C<%40> for the at sign.  For example:

    file:///var/spool/mail/captnmark
    pop3://markus:%2f%40%3a@maol.ch/
    imap://mathias@localhost/INBOX.Maillisten.icewm-user

=item B<NetworkStatusDevice>="eth0 wlan0"

Network device for which to show status.

=item B<TimeFormat>="%X"

Clock Time format (strftime format string).

=item B<TimeFormatAlt>=""

Alternate Clock Time format (e.g. for blinking effects).

=item B<DateFormat>="%c"

Clock Date format for tooltip (strftime format string).

=item B<TaskBarCPUSamples>=20  [2-1000]

Width of CPU Monitor.

=item B<TaskBarMEMSamples>=20  [2-1000]

Width of Memory Monitor.

=item B<TaskBarNetSamples>=20  [2-1000]

Width of Net Monitor.

=item B<TaskbarButtonWidthDivisor>=3  [1-25]

Default number of tasks in taskbar.

=item B<TaskBarWidthPercentage>=100  [0-100]

Task bar width as percentage of the screen width.

=item B<TaskBarJustify>="left"

Taskbar justify left, right or center.

=item B<TaskBarApmGraphWidth>=10  [1-1000]

Width of APM Monitor.

=item B<TaskBarGraphHeight>=20  [16-1000]

Height of taskbar monitoring applets.

=item B<XineramaPrimaryScreen>=0  [0-63]

Primary screen for xinerama (taskbar, ...).

=back

=head2 MENUS

=over

=item B<AutoReloadMenus>=1

Reload menu files automatically.

=item B<ShowProgramsMenu>=0

Show programs submenu.

=item B<ShowSettingsMenu>=1

Show settings submenu.

=item B<ShowFocusModeMenu>=1

Show focus mode submenu.

=item B<ShowThemesMenu>=1

Show themes submenu.

=item B<ShowLogoutMenu>=1

Show logout menu.

=item B<ShowHelp>=1

Show the help menu item.

=item B<ShowLogoutSubMenu>=1

Show logout submenu.

=item B<ShowAbout>=1

Show the about menu item.

=item B<ShowRun>=1

Show the run menu item.

=item B<ShowWindowList>=1

Show the window menu item.

=item B<MenuMaximalWidth>=0  [0-16384]

Maximal width of popup menus,  2/3 of the screen's width if set to zero.

=item B<NestedThemeMenuMinNumber>=25  [0-1234]

Minimal number of themes after which the Themes menu becomes nested (0=disabled).

=back

=head2 TIMINGS

=over

=item B<DelayFuzziness>=10  (0-100)

Delay fuzziness, to allow merging of multiple timer timeouts into one
(notebook power saving).

=item B<ClickMotionDistance>=4  [0-32]

Pointer motion distance before click gets interpreted as drag.

=item B<ClickMotionDelay>=200  [0-2000]

Delay before click gets interpreted as drag.

=item B<MultiClickTime>=400  [0-5000]

Multiple click time.

=item B<MenuActivateDelay>=40  [0-5000]

Delay before activating menu items.

=item B<SubmenuMenuActivateDelay>=300  [0-5000]

Delay before activating menu submenus.

=item B<ToolTipDelay>=1000  [0-5000]

Delay before tooltip window is displayed.

=item B<ToolTipTime>=0  [0-60000]

Time before tooltip window is hidden (0 means never.

=item B<AutoHideDelay>=300  [0-5000]

Delay before task bar is hidden.

=item B<AutoShowDelay>=500  [0-5000]

Delay before task bar is shown.

=item B<AutoRaiseDelay>=400  [0-5000]

Delay before windows are auto raised.

=item B<PointerFocusDelay>=200  [0-1000]

Delay for pointer focus switching.

=item B<EdgeSwitchDelay>=600  [0-5000]

Screen edge workspace switching delay.

=item B<ScrollBarStartDelay>=500  [0-5000]

Initial scroll bar autoscroll delay.

=item B<ScrollBarDelay>=30  [0-5000]

Scroll bar autoscroll delay.

=item B<AutoScrollStartDelay>=500  [0-5000]

Auto scroll start delay.

=item B<AutoScrollDelay>=60  [0-5000]

Auto scroll delay.

=item B<WorkspaceStatusTime>=2500  [0-2500]

Time before workspace status window is hidden.

=item B<MailCheckDelay>=30  [0-86400]

Delay between new-mail checks. (seconds).

=item B<TaskBarCPUDelay>=500  [10-3600000]

Delay between CPU Monitor samples in ms.

=item B<TaskBarMEMDelay>=500  [10-3600000]

Delay between Memory Monitor samples in ms.

=item B<TaskBarNetDelay>=500  [10-3600000]

Delay between Net Monitor samples in ms.

=item B<FocusRequestFlashTime>=0  [0-86400]

Number of seconds the taskbar app will blink when requesting focus (0 = forever).

=item B<FocusRequestFlashInterval>=250  [0-30000]

Taskbar blink interval (ms) when requesting focus (0 = blinking disabled).

=item B<BatteryPollingPeriod>=10  [2-3600]

Delay between power status updates (seconds).

=back

=head2 BUITTONS AND KEYS

=over

=item B<UseRootButtons>=255  [0-255]

Bitmask of root window button click to use in window manager.

=item B<ButtonRaiseMask>=1  [0-255]

Bitmask of buttons that raise the window when pressed.

=item B<DesktopWinMenuButton>=0  [0-20]

Desktop mouse-button click to show the window list menu.

=item B<DesktopMenuButton>=3  [0-20]

Desktop mouse-button click to show the root menu.

=item B<TitleBarMaximizeButton>=1  [0-5]

TitleBar mouse-button double click to maximize the window.

=item B<TitleBarRollupButton>=2  [0-5]

TitleBar mouse-button double click to rollup the window.

=back

=head2 WORKSPACES

=head2 PATHS

=over

=item B<IconPath>="/usr/share/icons/hicolor:/usr/share/icons:/usr/share/pixmaps"

Icon search path (colon separated).

=item B<MailBoxPath>=""

Mailbox path (use \$MAIL instead).

=back

=head2 PROGRAMS

=over

=item B<MailCommand>="xterm -name mutt -e mutt"

Command to run on mailbox.

=item B<MailClassHint>="mutt.XTerm"

B<WM_CLASS> to allow B<runonce> for B<MailCommand>.

=item B<NewMailCommand>=""

Command to run when new mail arrives.

=item B<LockCommand>=""

Command to lock display/screensaver.

=item B<ClockCommand>="xclock -name icewm -title Clock"

Command to run on clock.

=item B<ClockClassHint>="icewm.XClock"

B<WM_CLASS> to allow B<runonce> for B<ClockCommand>.

=item B<RunCommand>=""

Command to select and run a program.

=item B<OpenCommand>=""

Open command.

=item B<TerminalCommand>="xterm"

Terminal emulator must accept -e option.

=item B<LogoutCommand>=""

Command to start logout.

=item B<LogoutCancelCommand>=""

Command to cancel logout.

=item B<ShutdownCommand>="/bin/sh -c "{ test -e /run/systemd/system && systemctl poweroff; } ||:""

Command to shutdown the system.

=item B<RebootCommand>="/bin/sh -c "{ test -e /run/systemd/system && systemctl reboot; } ||:""

Command to reboot the system.

=item B<CPUStatusCommand>="xterm -name top -title Process\ Status -e top"

Command to run on CPU status.

=item B<CPUStatusClassHint>="top.XTerm"

B<WM_CLASS> to allow B<runonce> for B<CPUStatusCommand>.

=item B<CPUStatusCombine>=1  0/1

Combine all CPUs to one.

=item B<NetStatusCommand>="xterm -name netstat -title 'Network Status' -e netstat -c"

Command to run on Net status.

=item B<NetStatusClassHint>="netstat.XTerm"

B<WM_CLASS> to allow B<runonce> for B<NetStatusCommand>.

=item B<AddressBarCommand>=""

Command to run for address bar entries.

=back

=head2 WINDOW MENUS

=head2 THEME SETTINGS

This section shows settings that can be set in theme files.  They can
also be set in the F<preferences> file, but themes will override the
values set there.  To override the theme values, the settings should be
set in F<prefoverrides> file: see L<icewm-prefoverrides(5)>.  Default
values are shown following the equal sign.

=head3 Description

=over

=item B<ThemeAuthor>=""

Theme author, e-mail address, credits.

=item B<ThemeDescription>=""

Description of the theme, credits.

=back

=head3 Borders, Icons, Margins and Buttons

=over

=item B<BorderSizeX>=6  [0-128]

Horizontal window border.

=item B<BorderSizeY>=6  [0-128]

Vertical window border.

=item B<DlgBorderSizeX>=2  [0-128]

Horizontal dialog window border.

=item B<DlgBorderSizeY>=2  [0-128]

Vertical dialog window border.

=item B<CornerSizeX>=24  [0-64]

Resize corner width.

=item B<CornerSizeY>=24  [0-64]

Resize corner height.

=item B<TitleBarHeight>=20  [0-128]

Title bar height.

=item B<TitleBarJustify>=0  [0-100]

Justification of the window title.

=item B<TitleBarHorzOffset>=0  [-128-128]

Horizontal offset for the window title text.

=item B<TitleBarVertOffset>=0  [-128-128]

Vertical offset for the window title text.

=item B<ScrollBarX>=16  [0-64]

Scrollbar width.

=item B<ScrollBarY>=16  [0-64]

Scrollbar (button) height.

=item B<MenuIconSize>=16  [8-128]

Menu icon size.

=item B<SmallIconSize>=16  [8-128]

Dimension of the small icons.

=item B<LargeIconSize>=32  [8-128]

Dimension of the large icons.

=item B<HugeIconSize>=48  [8-128]

Dimension of the large icons.

=item B<QuickSwitchHorzMargin>=3  [0-64]

Horizontal margin of the quickswitch window.

=item B<QuickSwitchVertMargin>=3  [0-64]

Vertical margin of the quickswitch window.

=item B<QuickSwitchIconMargin>=4  [0-64]

Vertical margin in the quickswitch window.

=item B<QuickSwitchIconBorder>=2  [0-64]

Distance between the active icon and it's border.

=item B<QuickSwitchSeparatorSize>=6  [0-64]

Height of the separator between (all reachable) icons and text, 0 to avoid it.

=item B<TitleButtonsLeft>="s"

Titlebar buttons from left to right (x=close, m=max, i=min, h=hide, r=rollup, s=sysmenu, d=depth).

=item B<TitleButtonsRight>="xmir"

Titlebar buttons from right to left (x=close, m=max, i=min, h=hide, r=rollup, s=sysmenu, d=depth).

=item B<TitleButtonsSupported>="xmis"

Titlebar buttons supported by theme (x,m,i,r,h,s,d).

=back

=head3 Fonts

=over

=item B<TitleFontName>="-*-sans-medium-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<TitleFontNameXft>="sans-serif:size=12"

Name of the title bar font.

=item B<MenuFontName>="-*-sans-bold-r-*-*-*-100-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<MenuFontNameXft>="sans-serif:size=10:bold"

Name of the menu font.

=item B<StatusFontName>="-*-monospace-bold-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<StatusFontNameXft>="monospace:size=12:bold"

Name of the status display font.

=item B<QuickSwitchFontName>="-*-monospace-bold-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<QuickSwitchFontNameXft>="monospace:size=12:bold"

Name of the font for Alt+Tab switcher window.

=item B<NormalButtonFontName>="-*-sans-medium-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<NormalButtonFontNameXft>="sans-serif:size=12"

Name of the normal button font.

=item B<ActiveButtonFontName>="-*-sans-bold-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<ActiveButtonFontNameXft>="sans-serif:size=12:bold"

Name of the active button font.

=item B<NormalTaskBarFontName>="-*-sans-medium-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<NormalTaskBarFontNameXft>="sans-serif:size=12"

Name of the normal task bar item font.

=item B<ActiveTaskBarFontName>="-*-sans-bold-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<ActiveTaskBarFontNameXft>="sans-serif:size=12:bold"

Name of the active task bar item font.

=item B<ToolButtonFontName>="-*-sans-medium-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<ToolButtonFontNameXft>="sans-serif:size=12"

Name of the tool button font (fallback: NormalButtonFontName).

=item B<NormalWorkspaceFontName>="-*-sans-medium-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<NormalWorkspaceFontNameXft>="sans-serif:size=12"

Name of the normal workspace button font (fallback: NormalButtonFontName).

=item B<ActiveWorkspaceFontName>="-*-sans-medium-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<ActiveWorkspaceFontNameXft>="sans-serif:size=12"

Name of the active workspace button font (fallback: ActiveButtonFontName).

=item B<MinimizedWindowFontName>="-*-sans-medium-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<MinimizedWindowFontNameXft>="sans-serif:size=12"

Name of the mini-window font.

=item B<ListBoxFontName>="-*-sans-medium-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<ListBoxFontNameXft>="sans-serif:size=12"

Name of the window list font.

=item B<ToolTipFontName>="-*-sans-medium-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<ToolTipFontNameXft>="sans-serif:size=12"

Name of the tool tip font.

=item B<ClockFontName>="-*-monospace-medium-r-*-*-*-140-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<ClockFontNameXft>="monospace:size=12"

Name of the task bar clock font.

=item B<TempFontName>="-*-monospace-medium-r-*-*-*-140-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<TempFontNameXft>="monospace:size=12"

Name of the task bar temperature font.

=item B<ApmFontName>="-*-monospace-medium-r-*-*-*-140-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<ApmFontNameXft>="monospace:size=12"

Name of the task bar battery font.

=item B<InputFontName>="-*-monospace-medium-r-*-*-*-140-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<InputFontNameXft>="monospace:size=12"

Name of the input field font.

=item B<LabelFontName>="-*-sans-medium-r-*-*-*-140-*-*-*-*-*-*"

=item B<LabelFontNameXft>="sans-serif:size=12"

Name of the label font.

=back

=head3 Colors

=over

=item B<ColorDialog> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background of dialog windows.

=item B<ColorNormalBorder> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Border of inactive windows.

=item B<ColorActiveBorder> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Border of active windows.

=item B<ColorNormalButton> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background of regular buttons.

=item B<ColorNormalButtonText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor of regular buttons.

=item B<ColorActiveButton> = "rgb:E0/E0/E0"

Background of pressed buttons.

=item B<ColorActiveButtonText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor of pressed buttons.

=item B<ColorNormalTitleButton> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background of titlebar buttons.

=item B<ColorNormalTitleButtonText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor of titlebar buttons.

=item B<ColorToolButton> = ""

Background of toolbar buttons, ColorNormalButton is used if empty.

=item B<ColorToolButtonText> = ""

Textcolor of toolbar buttons, ColorNormalButtonText is used if empty.

=item B<ColorNormalWorkspaceButton> = ""

Background of workspace buttons, ColorNormalButton is used if empty.

=item B<ColorNormalWorkspaceButtonText> = ""

Textcolor of workspace buttons, ColorNormalButtonText is used if empty.

=item B<ColorActiveWorkspaceButton> = ""

Background of the active workspace button, ColorActiveButton is used if empty.

=item B<ColorActiveWorkspaceButtonText> = ""

Textcolor of the active workspace button, ColorActiveButtonText is used if empty.

=item B<ColorNormalTitleBar> = "rgb:80/80/80"

Background of the titlebar of regular windows.

=item B<ColorNormalTitleBarText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor of the titlebar of regular windows.

=item B<ColorNormalTitleBarShadow> = ""

Textshadow of the titlebar of regular windows.

=item B<ColorActiveTitleBar> = "rgb:00/00/A0"

Background of the titlebar of active windows.

=item B<ColorActiveTitleBarText> = "rgb:FF/FF/FF"

Textcolor of the titlebar of active windows.

=item B<ColorActiveTitleBarShadow> = ""

Textshadow of the titlebar of active windows.

=item B<ColorNormalMinimizedWindow> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background for mini icons of regular windows.

=item B<ColorNormalMinimizedWindowText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor for mini icons of regular windows.

=item B<ColorActiveMinimizedWindow> = "rgb:E0/E0/E0"

Background for mini icons of active windows.

=item B<ColorActiveMinimizedWindowText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor for mini icons of active windows.

=item B<ColorNormalMenu> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background of pop-up menus.

=item B<ColorNormalMenuItemText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor of regular menu items.

=item B<ColorActiveMenuItem> = "rgb:A0/A0/A0"

Background of selected menu item, leave empty to force transparency.

=item B<ColorActiveMenuItemText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor of selected menu items.

=item B<ColorDisabledMenuItemText> = "rgb:80/80/80"

Textcolor of disabled menu items.

=item B<ColorDisabledMenuItemShadow> = ""

Shadow of regular menu items.

=item B<ColorMoveSizeStatus> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background of move/resize status window.

=item B<ColorMoveSizeStatusText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor of move/resize status window.

=item B<ColorQuickSwitch> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background of the quick switch window.

=item B<ColorQuickSwitchText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor in the quick switch window.

=item B<ColorQuickSwitchActive> = ""

Rectangle around the active icon in the quick switch window.

=item B<ColorDefaultTaskBar> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background of the taskbar.

=item B<ColorNormalTaskBarApp> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background for task buttons of regular windows.

=item B<ColorNormalTaskBarAppText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor for task buttons of regular windows.

=item B<ColorActiveTaskBarApp> = "rgb:E0/E0/E0"

Background for task buttons of the active window.

=item B<ColorActiveTaskBarAppText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor for task buttons of the active window.

=item B<ColorMinimizedTaskBarApp> = "rgb:A0/A0/A0"

Background for task buttons of minimized windows.

=item B<ColorMinimizedTaskBarAppText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor for task buttons of minimized windows.

=item B<ColorInvisibleTaskBarApp> = "rgb:80/80/80"

Background for task buttons of windows on other workspaces.

=item B<ColorInvisibleTaskBarAppText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor for task buttons of windows on other workspaces.

=item B<ColorScrollBar> = "rgb:A0/A0/A0"

Scrollbar background (sliding area).

=item B<ColorScrollBarSlider> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background of the slider button in scrollbars.

=item B<ColorScrollBarButton> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background of the arrow buttons in scrollbars.

=item B<ColorScrollBarArrow> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background of the arrow buttons in scrollbars (obsolete).

=item B<ColorScrollBarButtonArrow> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Color of active arrows on scrollbar buttons.

=item B<ColorScrollBarInactiveArrow> = "rgb:80/80/80"

Color of inactive arrows on scrollbar buttons.

=item B<ColorListBox> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background of listboxes.

=item B<ColorListBoxText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor in listboxes.

=item B<ColorListBoxSelection> = "rgb:80/80/80"

Background of selected listbox items.

=item B<ColorListBoxSelectionText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor of selected listbox items.

=item B<ColorToolTip> = "rgb:E0/E0/00"

Background of tooltips.

=item B<ColorToolTipText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor of tooltips.

=item B<ColorLabel> = "rgb:C0/C0/C0"

Background of labels, leave empty to force transparency.

=item B<ColorLabelText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor of labels.

=item B<ColorInput> = "rgb:FF/FF/FF"

Background of text entry fields (e.g. the addressbar).

=item B<ColorInputText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Textcolor of text entry fields (e.g. the addressbar).

=item B<ColorInputSelection> = "rgb:80/80/80"

Background of selected text in an entry field.

=item B<ColorInputSelectionText> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Selected text in an entry field.

=item B<ColorClock> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Background of non-LCD clock, leave empty to force transparency.

=item B<ColorClockText> = "rgb:00/FF/00"

Background of non-LCD monitor.

=item B<ColorApm> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Background of APM monitor, leave empty to force transparency.

=item B<ColorApmText> = "rgb:00/FF/00"

Textcolor of APM monitor.

=item B<ColorApmBattary> = "rgb:FF/FF/00"

Color of APM monitor in battary mode.

=item B<ColorApmLine> = "rgb:00/FF/00"

Color of APM monitor in line mode.

=item B<ColorApmGraphBg> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Background color for graph mode.

=item B<ColorCPUStatusUser> = "rgb:00/FF/00"

User load on the CPU monitor.

=item B<ColorCPUStatusSystem> = "rgb:FF/00/00"

System load on the CPU monitor.

=item B<ColorCPUStatusInterrupts> = "rgb:FF/FF/00"

Interrupts on the CPU monitor.

=item B<ColorCPUStatusIoWait> = "rgb:60/00/60"

IO Wait on the CPU monitor.

=item B<ColorCPUStatusSoftIrq> = "rgb:00/FF/FF"

Soft Interrupts on the CPU monitor.

=item B<ColorCPUStatusNice> = "rgb:00/00/FF"

Nice load on the CPU monitor.

=item B<ColorCPUStatusIdle> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Idle (non) load on the CPU monitor, leave empty to force
transparency.

=item B<ColorCPUStatusSteal> = "rgb:FF/8A/91"

Involuntary Wait on the CPU monitor.

=item B<ColorCPUStatusTemp> = "rgb:60/60/C0"

Temperature of the CPU.

=item B<ColorMEMStatusUser> = "rgb:40/40/80"

User program usage in the memory monitor.

=item B<ColorMEMStatusBuffers> = "rgb:60/60/C0"

OS buffers usage in the memory monitor.

=item B<ColorMEMStatusCached> = "rgb:80/80/FF"

OS cached usage in the memory monitor.

=item B<ColorMEMStatusFree> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Free memory in the memory monitor.

=item B<ColorNetSend> = "rgb:FF/FF/00"

Outgoing load on the network monitor.

=item B<ColorNetReceive> = "rgb:FF/00/FF"

Incoming load on the network monitor.

=item B<ColorNetIdle> = "rgb:00/00/00"

Idle (non) load on the network monitor, leave empty to force transparency.

=item B<DesktopBackgroundColor>=""

Desktop background color(s).

=item B<DesktopTransparencyColor>=""

Color(s) to announce for semitransparent windows.

=back

=head3 Desktop Background

The following preferences are read by L<icewmbg(1)>:

=over

=item B<DesktopBackgroundCenter>=0  0/1

Display desktop background centered and not tiled.

=item B<DesktopBackgroundScaled>=0  0/1

Resize desktop background to full screen.

=item B<DesktopBackgroundColor>=""

Desktop background color(s).

=item B<DesktopBackgroundImage>=""

Desktop background image(s).

=item B<SupportSemitransparency>=1  0/1

Support for semitransparent terminals like Eterm or gnome-terminal.

=item B<DesktopTransparencyColor>=""

Color(s) to announce for semitransparent windows.

=item B<DesktopTransparencyImage>=""

Image(s) to announce for semitransparent windows.

=item B<DesktopBackgroundMultihead>=0  0/1

Paint the background image over all multihead monitors combined.

=back

=head3 Task Bar

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head1 FILES

Locations for the F<preferences> file are as follows:

=over

=item F<$ICEWM_PRIVCFG/preferences>

=item F<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/icewm/preferences>

=item F<$HOME/.icewm/preferences>

=item F</etc/icewm/preferences>

=item F</usr/share/icewm/preferences>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<icewm(1)>,
L<icewm-prefoverride(5)>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

B<IceWM> is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License.
See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
