=pod

=head1 NAME

 icewm-toolbar - icewm toolbar configuration file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item F<$ICEWM_PRIVCFG/toolbar>

=item F<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/icewm/toolbar>

=item F<$HOME/.icewm/toolbar>

=item F</etc/icewm/toolbar>

=item F</usr/share/icewm/toolbar>

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<toolbar> file is responsible for configuring quick launch
application icons that are placed on the L<icewm(1)> panel.  The file is
used to place programs as buttons on the L<icewm(1)> pane

Contains names of quick to launch applications with icons for the task
bar.  Each non-empty non-comment line starts with the keyword B<prog>.
After one or more spaces follows a name, which is displayed in a tool
tip whenever the mouse cursor hovers over the toolbar icon.  This name
may be a double quoted string.  Then follows the bare name of the icon
to use without extensions.  This icon will be shown in the toolbar.  The
last component is a shell command line which will be executed whenever
the user presses the icon in the toolbar.  For example, the following
line in toolbar will create a button with tool tip C<Mozilla Firefox>
with the F<firefox> icon which launches L<firefox(1)> when clicked:

    prog  "Mozilla Firefox"  firefox  /usr/bin/firefox --private-window

=head1 FORMAT

The format of the file contains one of the following line syntax:

=over

B<prog> B<">I<title>B<"> I<icon> I<program> I<options>

=back

Where,

=over

=item B<prog>

The literal string B<prog>.

=item B<">I<title>B<">

The title of the toolbar item, which will appear as a tool-tip for the
program button, enclosed in double quotes (C<">).

=item I<icon>

The icon to display on the toolbar button.  May be specified as a single
dash (C<->) when no icon is provided.  When no icon is provided, the
I<title> text will be displayed on the button in place of the icon.

=item I<program>

The executable program (full path or executable name) to run when the
button is pressed.

=item I<options>

Options and arguments that are passed to I<program>.

=back

Lines beginning with a hash (C<#>) are comment lines.  Comment lines and
blank lines are ignored.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Following is an example that places a number of toolbar buttons on the
L<icewm(1)> panel:

    prog "File Manager" file-manager.png pcmanfm
    prog "Web Browser" web-browser.png /usr/lib/firefox/firefox
    prog "Terminal" terminal.png roxterm
    prog "Graphical Editor" text-editor.png gvim -f
    prog "Calculator" accessories-calculator.png calculator
    prog "Run Command" gtk-execute.png xde-run
    prog "Network" gtk-network.png pcmanfm ~/Network
    prog "Logout" system-log-out.png xde-logout

=head1 FILES

Locations for the toolbar options file are as follows:

=over

=item F<$ICEWM_PRIVCFG/toolbar>

=item F<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/icewm/toolbar>

=item F<$HOME/.icewm/toolbar>

=item F</etc/icewm/toolbar>

=item F</usr/share/icewm/toolbar>

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<icewm(1)>,
L<icewm-programs(5)>,
L<icewm-menu(5)>,
L<icewm-menu-fdo(1)>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

B<IceWM> is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License.
See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
