=pod

=head1 NAME

 icewmtray - a system tray for the IceWM panel

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item B<icewmtray> [I<OPTIONS>]

=item B<icewmtray> {B<-h>|B<--help>} [I<OPTIONS>]

=item B<icewmtray> {B<-V>|B<--version>}

=item B<icewmtray> {B<-C>|B<--copying>}

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<icewmtray> provides a system tray for the IceWM panel.  It catches the
system tray objects which are installed by various applications.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<icewmtray> recognizes the following options:

=head2 COMMAND OPTIONS

Command options are mutually exclusive.  Only one command option can be
specified per invocation.  If no command option is specified, argument
parsing and processing is performed.

=over

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print a brief usage statement to F<stdout> and exit.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print the program version to F<stdout> and exit.

=item B<-C>, B<--copying>

Print copying permissions to F<stdout> for the program and exit.

=back

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

B<icewmtray> recognizes the following options:

=over

=item B<-n>, B<--notify>

Specifies that B<icewmtray> is to notify its parent process by sending
the B<SIGUSR1> signal.  This option is used by L<icewm-session(1)> when
starting up components so that it can wait for component startup to
complete.

=item B<-c>, B<--config> I<FILENAME>

Specifies the configuration file to use.

=item B<-t>, B<--theme> I<THEME>

Specifies an override theme to use.

=item B<--debug>

Specifies that debugging is to be turned on.  B<icewmtray> must have
been compiled with debugging for this option to have an effect.

=back

=head1 USAGE

B<icewmtray(1)> is typically launched and terminated by
L<icewm-session(1)> with the appropriate options: it is usually
unnecessary to launch it directly.

=head1 CONFORMING TO

B<icewmtray> is compliant to the XDG system tray specification.

=head1 BUGS

B<icewmtray> had no known bugs at the time of release.  Please report bugs
for current versions to the source code repository at
L<https://github.com/bbidulock/icewm/issues>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

See B<--copying> for full copyright notice and copying permissions.

=head1 LICENSE

B<IceWM> is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License.
See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution or use the B<--copying> flag
to display copying permissions.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
