=pod

=head1 NAME

 icewm-session - X.Org session manager provider with IceWM

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<icewm-session> [I<OPTIONS>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

icewm-session is an implementation of X.Org session manager and can be
run from X11 session setup. It runs B<icewm> as default window manager
and handles the startup and life cycle control of the WM and all related
support applications.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 SPECIFIC OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-c>, B<--config=FILE>

Let IceWM load preferences from I<FILE>.

=item B<-t>, B<--theme=FILE>

Let IceWM load the theme I<FILE>.

=item B<-i>, B<--icewm=FILE>

Use I<FILE> as the IceWM window manager.

=item B<-o>, B<--output=FILE>

Redirect all output to I<FILE>.

=item B<-a>, B<--alpha>

Use a 32-bit visual for translucency.

=item B<-b>, B<--nobg>

Do not start icewmbg.

=item B<-n>, B<--notray>

Do not start icewmtray.
This is only applicable if IceWM was explicitly configured
to use an external icewmtray process.

=item B<-s>, B<--sound>

Also start icesound.

=back

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-d>, B<--display>=I<DISPLAY>

Use I<DISPLAY> to connect to the X server.
If this option is missing then I<DISPLAY>
is read from the environment variable C<DISPLAY>.

=item B<--sync>

Use a slower synchronous mode communication with the I<X11> server.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Give a list of all supported options and exit.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print the program version and exit.

=item B<-C>, B<--copying>

Print copying permissions and exit.

=back

=head1 USAGE

On startup icewm-session executes the following steps.
From the file F<env> in the configuration directory
it loads additional environment variables, if that file exists.
Then it will start F<icewmbg> to manage root background colors and images.
It may also start F<icesound>, if this was enabled at configuration time.
Then F<icewm> is started.

If there exists an executable script F<startup> in the configuration
directory, it will be executed. It may contain commands to initialize X11
settings with F<xset>, load keyboard configuration, start a compositing
manager like F<compton> and load system tray applications.

When icewm exits or is told to exit, icewm-session will execute
a F<shutdown> script, if it exists in the configuration directory.
When this finishes, icewm-session will terminate icewm, icewmbg
and icesound. Finally icewm-session will exit.

If the icewm process crashes then icewm-session will attempt to restart
it. If two such crashes occur in a short period, then icewm-session will
attempt to popup a dialog using either F<xmessage>, F<kdialog> or
F<zenity>.  This dialog asks if the user wishes to continue restarting
icewm or abort execution of icewm-session.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item B<ICEWM_OPTIONS>

A space separated list of options which will be added to the command
line invocation of F<icewm>. This can be set in the F<env> file.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<icewm(1)>,
L<icewm-env(5)>,
L<icewm-shutdown(5)>,
L<icewm-startup(5)>,
L<icewmbg(1)>.

=head1 BUGS

B<icewm-session> had no known bugs at the time of release.  Please report bugs
for current versions to the source code repository at
L<https://github.com/bbidulock/icewm/issues>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

See B<--copying> for full copyright notice and copying permissions.

=head1 LICENSE

B<IceWM> is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License.
See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution or use the B<--copying> flag
to display copying permissions.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
