=pod

=head1 NAME

 icewm-menu-gnome2 - 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<> B<icewm-menu-gnome2> [I<OPTIONS>]
 B<icewm-menu-gnome2> {B<-h>|B<--help>} [I<OPTIONS>]
 B<icewm-menu-gnome2> {B<-V>|B<--version>}
 B<icewm-menu-gnome2> {B<-C>|B<--copying>}

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head1 OPTIONS

B<icewm-menu-gnome2> recognizes the following options:

=head2 COMMAND OPTIONS

Command options are mutually exclusive.  Only one command option can be
specified per invocation.  If no command option is specified, argument
parsing and processing is performed.

=over

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print a brief usage statement to F<stdout> and exit.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print the program version to F<stdout> and exit.

=item B<-C>, B<--copying>

Print copying permissions to F<stdout> for the program and exit.

=back

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

B<icewm-menu-gnome2> recognizes the two following mutually exclusive
options:

=over

=item B<--open> I<FILENAME>

Read the GNOME version 2 F<.desktop> file specified by I<FILENAME> and
execute the C<Exec> line with variable substitution.  This is used when
generating menus to launch individual items within the menu.

=item B<--list> I<DIRECTORY>

Read the GNOME version 2 I<DIRECTORY> and generate L<icewm(1)> menu
items for each file or sub-directory within the I<DIRECTORY>.
Sub-directories are not immediately expanded but generate B<menuprog>
entries executing B<icewm-menu-gnome2> with the sub-directory as the
I<DIRECTORY> argument.

=back

=head1 USAGE

This utility is not normally used directly, but is used as the
executable in a B<menuprog> entry in a menu.  It is quite deprecated.
Use L<icewm-menu-fdo(1)> instead.

=head1 CONFORMING TO

B<icewm-menu-gnome2> complies to the GNOME version 2 menu specification.
This is somewhat different from the XDG desktop file specification, and
is quite deprecated.

=head1 CAVEATS

The B<icewm-menu-gnome2> program is only built when the L<icewm(1)>
package is configured with the B<--enable-menus-gnome2> option.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<icewm(1)>,
L<icewm-menu-fdo(1)>,
L<icewm-preferences(5)>.

=head1 BUGS

B<icewm-menu-gnome2> had no known bugs at the time of release.  Please report bugs
for current versions to the source code repository at
L<https://github.com/bbidulock/icewm/issues>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

See B<--copying> for full copyright notice and copying permissions.

=head1 LICENSE

B<IceWM> is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License.
See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution or use the B<--copying> flag
to display copying permissions.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
