=pod

=head2 NAME

 icewm-menu-xrandr - IceWM menu provider for multi-monitor setup shortcuts

=head2 SYNOPSIS

B<icewm-menu-xrandr>

=head2 DESCRIPTION

B<icewm-menu-xrandr> is a helper to manage multi-screen configurations
in a semi-automated way. It is a regular icewm menu generator that
detects the available xrandr screens (i.e. connected monitors) and
creates menu entries that call the xrandr command to setup this
configuration.

Optionally, the contents of the generated configurations can be accessed
on-the-fly through a "quick-switch" style menu which pops up upon
pressing Super-P key binding (or a manually configured key, see
L<icewm-keys(5)> for the configuration of B<switchkey> directive).

The tool does not examine the exact monitor resolutions, refresh rates
or screen orientation. For this matters it uses auto selected mode by
default. However, it is possible to replace the custom option selection
for each output using I<xrandr> options in a custom configuration file
(see I<CONFIGURATION> below). Also tuning specific options like
--brightness and --gamma is possible there.

The displayed name of the monitors is constructed using the output name
and the monitor information from its EDID data. Either from its "Display
Name" field or from the "Unspecified ASCII text" fields (concatenated).

=head2 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--max>

Obsolete and ineffective option. Used to select the I<xrandr> mode with the
highest detected refresh rate. However, the maximum rate might cause
problems, therefore the explicit configuration in the I<INI file> should be
used now, see I<CONFIGURATION>.

=item B<--auto-number [ init value ]>

Adding a auto-incremented numbered prefix to each display name,
optionally started at the specified value. This mostly useful for menu
creation.

=item B<--xrandr command>

Replacement for I<xrandr> command that should deliver equivalent data
and accept the same options as I<xrandr>.

=item B<--activate combo-name>

A shortcut to run the activation command of the specified combo, just
like I<IceWM> would run the commmand when selected from the menu or
quick-switch dialog. The I<combo-name> parameter needs to match the
displayed name exactly.

=back

=head2 CONFIGURATION

Optionally, a local configuration can specify command line options to
I<xrandr> calls, and further commands to run after mode switching.

Refer to configuration examples (I<xrandr_menu>) in I<icewm>
documentation or its contrib folder for the syntax and rules of that
file. It can be placed into I<$HOME/.config/icewm> or into
I<$HOME/.icewm> or wherever I<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/.config/icewm> might
resolve to.

=head2 SEE ALSO

L<icewm(1)>,
L<xrandr(1)>.

=head2 BUGS

Please report bugs at L<https://github.com/bbidulock/icewm/issues>.

=head2 AUTHOR

Eduard Bloch L<mailto:edi@gmx.de>.

=head2 LICENSE

B<icewm-menu-xrandr> is licensed under the Simplified BSD License.
B<IceWM> is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License.
See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
