=pod

=head2 NAME

 icewm-env - icewm environment configuration file

=head2 SYNOPSIS

 $ICEWM_PRIVCFG/env
 $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/icewm/env
 $HOME/.icewm/env
 /etc/icewm/env
 /usr/share/icewm/env

=head2 DESCRIPTION

L<icewm-session(1)> loads additional environment variables from the file
F<env> before it does anything else. These variables are then propagated
to all other processes, including L<icewm(1)>, via their environment.

=head2 FORMAT

Each line is subjected to POSIX shell expansion by L<wordexp(3)>.
Comment lines starting by a hash-sign (C<#>) are ignored.
L<icewm-session(1)> will load those expanded lines that contain a name,
followed by an equals sign, followed by the value (which may be empty).

The word B<unset> begins a line with names to be removed from the
environment.

=head2 EXAMPLES

 # This is a comment.
 # And another.

 XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP="ICEWM"
 XDG_MENU_PREFIX="unexicon-"

 START_DATE=`date`
 START_FROM=`pwd`

=head2 FILES

L<icewm-session(1)> looks for the F<env> file in the following locations:

 $ICEWM_PRIVCFG/env
 $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/icewm/env
 $HOME/.icewm/env
 /etc/icewm/env
 /usr/share/icewm/env

The locations are searched in the order listed; the first file found is
read and the remainder ignored.


=head2 SEE ALSO

L<icewm(1)>,
L<icewm-session(1)>,
L<icewm-startup(5)>.

=head2 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

=head2 LICENSE

B<IceWM> is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License.
See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
