=pod

=head1 NAME

 icewm-winoptions - IceWM window options configuration file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

F<> F<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/icewm/winoptions>
 F<$HOME/.icewm/winoptions>
 F</usr/share/icewm/winoptions>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The IceWM window options configuration file is used to configure
settings for individual application windows.  The window options that
are established by this file when L<icewm(1)> starts can be overridden
while running using the L<icesh(1)> or L<icewmhints(1)> utilities.

=head1 FORMAT

Each line in the file must be in one of the following formats:

B<> I<CLASS>B<.>I<NAME>B<.>I<ROLE>B<.>I<OPTION>B<:> I<VALUE>
 I<CLASS>B<.>I<NAME>B<.>I<OPTION>B<:> I<VALUE>
 I<CLASS>B<.>I<ROLE>B<.>I<OPTION>B<:> I<VALUE>
 I<NAME>B<.>I<ROLE>B<.>I<OPTION>B<:> I<VALUE>
 I<CLASS>B<.>I<OPTION>B<:> I<VALUE>
 I<NAME>B<.>I<OPTION>B<:> I<VALUE>
 I<ROLE>B<.>I<OPTION>B<:> I<VALUE>

Where the fields are defined as follows:

=over

=item I<CLASS>

The resource class portion of the ICCCM B<WM_CLASS> property for the
window.

=item I<NAME>

The resource name portion of the ICCCM B<WM_CLASS> property for the
window.

=item I<ROLE>

The resource name portion of the ICCCM B<WM_WINDOW_ROLE> property for
the window.

=item I<OPTION>: I<VALUE>

One of the options and values described below under L</OPTIONS>.

=back

Note that it is possible that the B<WM_WINDOW_ROLE> may contain a period
(C<.>).  When it does, the period should be escaped by a single
backslash when specifying the I<ROLE> in the file.

=head1 OPTIONS

The options and values described in the format, above, consist of an
option name, I<OPTION> followed by a semicolon (C<:>) a space (C< >) and
an allowable value for the option, I<VALUE>.  The available options are
as follows:

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

The following option control general characteristics of windows:

=over

=item B<icon>: I<NAME> (default: none)

Specifies the icon name for the window.  I<NAME> is the name of the
icon.

=item B<workspace>: I<WORKSPACE> (default: current)

Specifies the default workspace for the window.  I<WORKSPACE> is the
workspace number counting from zero (0).

=item B<layer>: {B<Desktop>|B<Below>|B<Normal>|B<OnTop>|B<Dock>|B<AboveDock>|B<Menu>|I<NUMBER>} (default: 4)

Specifies the default layer for the window.  Layer can be one of the
following strings or a number from zero (0) to fifteen (15):

B<>  B<Desktop>     (0)  Desktop window.
  B<Below>       (2)  Below the default layer.
  B<Normal>      (4)  Default layer for windows.
  B<OnTop>       (6)  Above the default layer.
  B<Dock>        (8)  Docked windows at edge of screen.
  B<AboveDock>  (10)  Windows above the dock.
  B<Menu>       (12)  Windows above the dock.

=item B<geometry> I<geometry> (default: WM_SIZE_HINTS)

The default geometry for the window.  This geometry should be specified
in a format that can be parsed by L<XParseGeometry(3)>:

 [=][<width>{xX}<height>][{+-}<xoffset>{+-}<yoffset>]

=item B<tray>: {B<Ignore>|B<Minimized>|B<Exclusive>|I<NUMBER>} (default: 0)

The default tray option for the window.  This affects both the tray and
the task pane.  Tray can be one of the following strings or a number
from zero (0) to two (2):

B<>  B<Ignore>     (0)  No icon added to tray.
  B<Minimized>  (1)  Add to tray, no task when minimized.
  B<Exclusive>  (2)  Add to tray, no task button.

=back

=head2 FUNCTION OPTIONS

The following options control the ability to take an action on the
window:

=over

=item B<fMove>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window cannot be moved.

=item B<fResize>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window cannot be resized.

=item B<fClose>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window cannot be closed.

=item B<fMinimize>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window cannot be minimized.

=item B<fMaximize>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window cannot be maximized.

=item B<fHide>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window cannot be hidden.

=item B<fRollup>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window cannot be shaded.

=back

=head2 DECOR OPTIONS

The following options control the decorations on the window:

=over

=item B<dTitleBar>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window will not have a title bar.

=item B<dSysMenu>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window will not have a system menu.

=item B<dBorder>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window will not have a border.

=item B<dResize>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window will not have resize grips.

=item B<dClose>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window will not have a close button.

=item B<dMinimize>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window will not have a minimize button.

=item B<dMaximize>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window will not have a maximize button.

=item B<dHide>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window will not have a hide button.

=item B<dRollup>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window will not have a shade button.

=item B<dDepth>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 1)

When set to 0, the window will not have a depth button.

=back

=head2 FEATURE OPTIONS

=over

=item B<allWorkspaces>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, the window will be visible on all workspaces.

=item B<ignoreTaskBar>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, the window will not appear in the task bar.

=item B<noIgnoreTaskBar>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, the window will appear in the task bar.

=item B<ignoreWinList>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, the window will not appear in the window list.

=item B<ignoreQuickSwitch>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, the window will not be accessible using the quick-switch
feature (i.e C<Alt+Tab>).

=item B<fullKeys>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, L<icewm(1)> will leave more keys available to the
application.

=item B<noFocusOnAppRaise>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, the window will not automatically get focus as the
application raises it.

=item B<ignoreNoFocusHint>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, L<icewm(1)> will focus the window even if the window does
not handle input (according to ICCCM procedures).

=item B<ignorePositionHint>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, L<icewm(1)> will position the window automatically
regardless of whether the application specifies the window position
(using ICCCM procedures).

=item B<doNotCover>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, the window will limit the workspace available for regular
applications.  The window has to also be sticky to make this work.

=item B<doNotFocus>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, do not focus the window even when it is capable of taking
keyboard focus.

=item B<startFullscreen>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, start the window in the full-screen mode.

=item B<startMinimized>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, start the window in the minimized state.

=item B<startMaximized>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, start the window in the maximized state.

=item B<startMaximizedVert>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, start the window in the maximized vertical state.

=item B<startMaximizedHorz>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, start the window in the maximized horizontal state.

=item B<nonICCCMconfigureRequest>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, do not issue ICCCM compliant configuration requests to
the application.

=item B<forcedClose>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1 and the application had not registered
B<WM_DELETE_WINDOW>, a close confirmation dialog will not be offered
upon closing the window.

=item B<noFocusOnMap>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, do not focus the window when it is mapped.

=item B<ignoreUrgentHint>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, ignore urgent hints (described in ICCCM).

=item B<appTakesFocus>: {B<0>|B<1>} (default: 0)

When set to 1, L<icewm(1)> will not give the focus to the application
but will expect the application to take focus for itself.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Following is the example window options file that ships with L<icewm(1)>
and typically installs to F</usr/share/icewm/winoptions>.

  # This is an example for IceWM's window options file.
  #
  # Place your variants in @CFGDIR@ or in $HOME/.icewm
  # since modifications to this file will be discarded when you
  # (re)install icewm.
  
  xterm.icon: xterm
  rxvt.icon: xterm
  nxterm.icon: xterm
  fte.icon: fte
  emacs.Emacs.icon: emacs
  AWTapp.icon: java
  # workaround for XV window repositioning problems
  xv.nonICCCMconfigureRequest: 1
  xeyes.ignoreWinList: 0
  xeyes.ignoreTaskBar: 1
  xeyes.allWorkspaces: 1
  xeyes.dTitleBar: 0
  xeyes.dBorder: 0
  xeyes.dSysMenu: 0
  xeyes.dResize: 0
  xeyes.dClose: 0
  xeyes.dMinimize: 0
  xeyes.dMaximize: 0
  xeyes.ignoreNoFocusHint: 1
  
  XClock.ignoreNoFocusHint: 1
  Vim.icon: vim
  
  applix.ignoreNoFocusHint: 1
  XDdts.noFocusOnAppRaise: 1
  Wingz.noFocusOnAppRaise: 1
  WingzPro.noFocusOnAppRaise: 1
  
  gkrellm.Gkrellm.allWorkspaces: 1
  gkrellm.Gkrellm.ignoreTaskBar: 1
  gkrellm.Gkrellm.layer: Below
  #gkrellm.Gkrellm.doNotCover: 1
  
  MainWindow.licq.allWorkspaces: 1
  MainWindow.licq.ignoreQuickSwitch: 1
  MainWindow.licq.ignoreWinList: 1
  MainWindow.licq.layer: Below
  #MainWindow.licq.doNotCover: 1

=head1 FILES

Locations for the window options file are as follows:

F<>    F<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/icewm/winoptions>
    F<$HOME/.icewm/winoptions>
    F</usr/share/icewm/winoptions>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<icewm(1)>,
L<icesh(1)>,
L<icewmhints(1)>,
L<XParseGeometry(3)>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

B<IceWM> is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License.
See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
