=pod

=head2 NAME

 icewm-keys - icewm keys configuration file

=head2 SYNOPSIS

 $ICEWM_PRIVCFG/keys
 $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/icewm/keys
 $HOME/.icewm/keys
 /etc/icewm/keys
 /usr/share/icewm/keys

=head2 DESCRIPTION

Global keybindings to launch applications, which need not be window
manager related. If you are looking for ways to disable icewm's grabbing
of default key combinations, please read L<icewm-preferences(5)>
instead.

Each non-empty line starts with the word C<key>.
After one or more spaces follows a double-quoted string of the bound X11
key combination like C<Alt+Ctrl+Shift+X>.  Then after at least one space
follows a shell command line which will be executed by B<icewm> whenever
this key combination is pressed.  For example, the following line
creates a hotkey to reload the B<icewm> configuration:

    key "Ctrl+Shift+r"      icesh restart

See the output of C<xmodmap -pk> for a list of keystroke names.
To bind the mouse use C<Pointer_Button1> for button 1, and so on.
The command C<icesh keys> instructs icewm to reload this file.

=head2 FORMAT

The syntax of the F<keys> file is as follows:

=over

=over

=item B<key> B<">I<key_combination>B<"> I<program> I<options>

=back

=back

Where,

=over

=item B<key>

The literal string keyword.

=item B<switchkey>

The literal string keyword, instead of C<key>, to build popup menus.
The output of I<program> should conform to L<icewm-menu(1)>.

=item I<key_combination>

A combination of modifiers and a key separated by a plus-sign (C<+>),
like C<Ctrl+Alt+Delete>. Mouse pointer buttons can be specified by
C<Pointer_Button1> and up.

=item I<program> I<options>

I<program> is the name of the executable or full path to the executable
file that will be run in response to selecting the menu item.  When used
with the B<switchkey> keyword, the I<program> must print on standard
output the contents of the popup like it would be used for dynamic menus.

I<options> are the options and arguments passed to the I<program>.

=back

=head2 EXAMPLES

Following is the example F<keys> file that ships with L<icewm(1)>:

    # This is an example for IceWM's hotkey definition file.
    #
    # A list of all valid keyboard symbols can be found in
    # /usr/include/X11/keysym.h, keysymdefs.h, XF86keysym.h,
    # ...  You'll have to omit XK_ prefixs and to replace
    # XF86XK_ prefixes by XF86. Valid modifiers are Alt,
    # Ctrl, Shift, Meta, Super and Hyper.
    #
    key "Alt+Ctrl+t" xterm
    key "Alt+Ctrl+b" xdg-open about:blank
    key "Alt+Ctrl+s" xdg-open https://www.google.com

    key "Super+KP_Subtract" amixer sset PCM 5%-
    key "Super+KP_Add" amixer sset PCM 5%+

    # "Multimedia key" bindings for XFree86. Gather the
    # keycodes of your advanced function keys by watching the
    # output of the xev command whilst pressing those keys
    # and map those symbols by using xmodmap.

    key "XF86AudioLowerVolume" amixer sset PCM 5%-
    key "XF86AudioRaiseVolume" amixer sset PCM 5%+
    key "XF86AudioMute" amixer sset PCM 0%
    key "XF86HomePage" xdg-open about:blank
    key "XF86Search" xdg-open https://www.google.com
    key "XF86Eject" eject

    # display and select monitor setup configurations
    switchkey "Super+p" icewm-menu-xrandr

Following shows how to add mouse button bindings on the root window to
change the current workspace rolling the mouse wheel on the desktop:

    key "Pointer_Button4"   icesh goto prev
    key "Pointer_Button5"   icesh goto next

These are key bindings for single window tile operations to replace the
I<KeyWinArrange> key bindings from the F<preferences> file:

    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_7" icesh -f sizeto 49% 49% top left
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_8" icesh -f sizeto 100% 49% top left
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_9" icesh -f sizeto 49% 49% top right
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_6" icesh -f sizeto 49% 100% top right
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_3" icesh -f sizeto 49% 49% bottom right
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_2" icesh -f sizeto 100% 49% bottom left
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_1" icesh -f sizeto 49% 49% bottom right
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_4" icesh -f sizeto 49% 100% top left
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_5" icesh -f sizeto 49% 49% center

Some systems need this instead:

    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_Home"  icesh -f sizeto 49% 49% top left
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_Up"    icesh -f sizeto 100% 49% top left
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_Prior" icesh -f sizeto 49% 49% top right
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_Right" icesh -f sizeto 49% 100% top right
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_Next"  icesh -f sizeto 49% 49% bottom right
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_Down"  icesh -f sizeto 100% 49% bottom left
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_End"   icesh -f sizeto 49% 49% bottom left
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_Left"  icesh -f sizeto 49% 100% top left
    key "Ctrl+Alt+KP_Begin" icesh -f sizeto 49% 49% center

=head2 FILES

Locations for the F<keys> file are as follows:

 $ICEWM_PRIVCFG/keys
 $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/icewm/keys
 $HOME/.icewm/keys
 /etc/icewm/keys
 /usr/share/icewm/keys

The locations are searched in the order listed; the first file found is
read and the remainder ignored.

=head2 SEE ALSO

L<icewm(1)>.

=head2 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

=head2 LICENSE

B<IceWM> is licensed under the GNU Library General Public License.
See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
