.ds AK \s-1IceWM\s+1
.ds EP \fIIceWM: Window Manager\fP
.if !\n(.g \{\
.	if !\w|\*(lq| \{\
.		ds lq ``
.		if \w'\(lq' .ds lq "\(lq
.	\}
.	if !\w|\*(rq| \{\
.		ds rq ''
.		if \w'\(rq' .ds rq "\(rq
.	\}
.\}
.TH IceWM 1 "July 20 2005" "Adam Pribyl" "Window Manager"
.SH NAME
icewm \- lightweight X11 window manager

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I IceWM
is lightweight X11 window manager.
The goal of IceWM is to provide a small, fast and familiar window
manager for the X11 window system. Compatibility with the
window manager is desired and will be implemented where
appropriate.

It was originally designed to emulate the look of Motif, OS/2 Warp
4, OS/2 Warp 3 and Windows 95. Since it has a theming engine (hint:
http://www.icewm.org/) others styles are possible.
It also tries to combine the feel of the above systems whenever it
is compatible.

Generally, it tries to make all functions available both by keyboard
and by mouse (this is not currently possible when using mouse focus).
Extreme configurability similar to fvwm and many other window
managers is NOT the goal. However IceWM configurability is very good throught
its various
.I preferences
files.

IceWM consists of several parts:

.B icewm 
- the actual window manager binary. This is the one you need to
get window decorations.

.B icewmbg 
- the background setting applications. It can assign plain
background color or images in different formats to the X background,
shared or separated for different workspaces. This program should be
started before IceWM startup.

.B icewmtray 
- catches the Docklet objects installed by various
applications like PSI.

.B icewm-session 
- runs all of the above when needed. Implements basic session management.

.B icesh
- could be used to manage IceWM internals from command line.

.B icewmhint
- used internaly.

.B icesound
- plays audio files on GUI events raised by IceWM.

.SH OPTIONS
For most of the parts use option
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-h, \-\^\-help
to see all of the options.
.PD 1
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.I ICEWM_PRIVCFG=PATH  
.RS
Directory to use for user private configuration files, "$HOME/.icewm/" 
by default.
.RE

.I DISPLAY=NAME
.RS
Name of the X server to use, depends on Xlib by default. See X(1).
.RE

.I MAIL=URL
.RS
Location of your mailbox. If the schema is omitted the local "file" 
schema is assumed.
.RE

.SH FILES
IceWM looks for its configuration files in the following directories, 
in the following order:

.I $(HOME)/.icewm/
.RS
User-specific configurations
.RE

.I /etc/X11/icewm/
.RS
System-wide customized defaults
.RE

.I /usr/local/share/icewm/
.RS
Default installation settings
.RE

.B Configuration files

.I keys
.RS
global keybindings to launch applications (not window manager related)
.RE

.I menu
.RS
menu of startable applications; usually customized by the user
.RE

.I preferences
.RS
general settings - paths, colors, fonts...
.RE

.I prefoverride
.RS
settings that should override the themes
.RE

.I programs
.RS
automatically generated menu of startable applications 
(this should be used for wmconfig, menu or similar packages, 
perhaps as a part of the login or X startup sequence)
.RE

.I theme
.RS
currently selected theme
.RE

.I toolbar
.RS
quick launch application icons on the taskbar
.RE

.I winoptions
.RS
application window options
.RE

.I startup
.RS
commands to execute on IceWM startup
.RE

.I shutdown
.RS
commands to execute on IceWM shutdown
.RE

.B Configuration directories

.I icons
.RS
icons used for applications (usually XPM files *_16x16.xpm and *_32x32.xpm)
.RE

.I ledclock
.RS
pictures of digits for clocks displayed in taskbar
.RE

.I mailbox
.RS
icons used for different states of mailbox
.RE

.I taskbar
.RS
pictures to customize look of the taskbar
.RE

.I themes
.RS
directory to store themes
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
Examples of above configuration files you can find in default instalation 
path or in system-wide customizable defaults.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR xinit (1),
.IR X (1),

.IR http://www.icewm.org/manual/

.IR http://www.icewm.org/FAQ/

.IR http://www.icewm.org/themes/
.SH AUTHORS
The original version of
.I IceWM
was designed and implemented in 1997 by Marko Macek,
in year 2001 it was maintained by Mathias Hasselmann
then again Marko Macek took over.

IceWM man page written by Adam Pribyl, covex@ahoj.fsik.cvut.cz, 2005
.SH BUG REPORTS
If you find a bug in
.IR IceWM
please use bug reporting system on
.BR http://sourceforge.net/projects/icewm/
to report it.
.SH COPYING
.I IceWM
is released under GNU Library General Public License.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Library General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the
Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
